2. Create a data frame by reading in the data from the rainfall.txt that you downloaded from
eCampus. The number -999 was used as a placeholder for the remaining months of 2016 on
each state. If these numbers are left in the data they will seriously skew our analysis. Add an
option to the function that reads the data so that these values are automatically read in as NA.
This option was covered in the section on importing data near the middle of R Lesson 5. Display
a summary of the new data frame.

3. Create a second data frame that contains only the statewide precipitation data for Texas. The
Texas data is designated by a value of TX-ST in the first column. The command to create the
data frame should also display the results of the data frame in one step. When you set up your
index values to specify which rows and columns will be in the new data frame,use the with
function to create a mask for the Texas rows and use a negative index to remove the first
column. Use the min function combined with the with function to display the minimum annual
Texas precipitation amount. Display the maximum annual Texas precipitation amount in a
similar manner.

4. Use a line of code to direct all graphic output to your PDF document. (You may want to wait
until you have your graphics working correctly before you add the line to redirect to PDF so you
can see the results in your R session.)

5. Create a histogram of the annual precipitation amounts from Texas data with breaks at every 4
inches of precipitation. Start the breaks at the first multiple of 4 below the minimum and go to
the next multiple of 4 above the maximum. You may hard code the start and end values when
setting up your break points. (The term “hard coding” refers to entering an actual value like
34.4 in your program logic instead of using a formula.) Make sure the layout, labels, and title all
match the sample output.

6. Add a blue line to the graph that shows the normal distribution density of these annual
precipitation amounts.

7. Draw a red vertical line at the mean annual precipitation value. Use a function to determine the
position of the line instead of hard coding the current mean value.

8. There is a saying that “April showers bring May flowers”. But we want to know if April showers
are a prediction of annual precipitation amounts. Create a new plot using the Texas data
showing the April precipitation amounts compared to the annual amounts. The color of the
diamonds is dark green.

9. Add a fit line to the plot.

10. Use functions to imbed text showing the date and time of creation in the lower right hand
corner of the graph area. The coordinates of the time stamp location need only be close to the
ones used for the sample output. You may hard code these coordinates. The date and time
must change automatically each time the script is run.

11. Create a boxplot of the Texas precipitation amounts of all years by month. Make sure the axes
use the scale and labels shown in the posted output. The inside of the boxes is light blue.

12. Since 2015 was the wettest year in Texas history, show the precipitation amount in 2015 for
each month using a blue dot at the appropriate position. Use the appropriate plot character so
the dot is filled in with the blue color. The magnification of the dot is 1.5 times the default size.
All labels and titles must match the sample output. (You may need to coerce the 2015 vector to
the desired data type in order to get the points to plot correctly.)
