2. The moving average (MA) process we are using in this assignment is defined by the following
recursive formula:
Xn = 2 + ωn – αωn-1 + βXn-1
where the ω (Greek letter omega) sequence is random noise. The Greek letter alpha (α)
represents the percentage that the “average” value is influenced by the previous amount of
noise. The Greek letter beta (β) represents the percentage that the “average” value is
influenced by the previous “average” value. The subscript n represents the position of the value
in the time sequence. You might think of n as the present value and n-1 as the previous value.
For this assignment you will need to create your own data. Simulate 10,000 values from this
process using standard normal values for the noise and values for α and β of 0.33 and 0.66
respectively. Use a loop to control the creation of your vector of moving average values (X).
Use a seed value of 52916 when you generate the random values. Plot only the last 1,000
values from this sequence with lines connecting the values. NOTE: The values for the X axis are
1 through 1000 to represent the 1000 points we are plotting even though the actual index
values from the vector will be different.

3. Convert the completed code to a function including the code that will plot the graph. The values
of α and β will be the only required arguments for the function. The seed along with the
number of values simulated and the number of values plotted will be optional arguments with
default values of 52916, 10,000 and 1,000 respectively. Be sure to adjust your code so it can
adapt to the values that will be supplied. The X axis label must be able to display whatever
values of α and β that are supplied as arguments to the function. NOTE: Only place inside the
function those steps that must be executed each time the function is called.

4. Set up your graphics so that there will be two rows of graphics on the output page. We want to
set the overall margins of the graphics within the page to be 1 inch on the top, 1.5 inches on the
left to allow space for punched holes, 0.5 inches on the right and 1 inch on the bottom. Set the
margins of the individual graph to be 2 lines on top, 4 lines left, 0 lines right and 5 lines bottom.

5. Call your function twice. The first call should use a value of 0.33 for α and 0.66 for β as its only
arguments. The second function call will have arguments of 0.20 and 0.80 for α and β
respectively, along with arguments to run 5000 simulations and plot 500 values.

6. Write the system time in the bottom outer margin of the page outside of the individual plots.
Left justify the time as shown in the sample.

7. After you have finished writing and testing your code close R. Then reopen R and run your
script. Submit to WebAssign the script, console, and output from this final run.
