Data files : HW04.RData and US_Fips.csv

For HW04.r
a. Show the contents of the newly loaded workspace.
b. Display the structure of the object loaded in the HW04 workspace.
c. Display a summary of the object loaded in the HW04 workspace.

For US_fips
a. Show the structure of the new data frame.
b. Execute a function that will make the columns of the data frame available to R directly
by column name.
c. Create a new column named FIPS in the data frame by concatenating the state FIPS and
County FIPS code values. (The value for the first row would be 01067.) Use only the
column name to refer to the columns in the function arguments. 

Create a new data frame that is a subset of the data loaded from the csv file containing only
Texas counties (State Abbreviation of TX and Entity Description of County). Use a logical test to
specify the rows and column numbers to select the columns to keep. The new data frame
should have the columns State.Abbreviation, GU.Name, and your new FIPS column.
a. Show the structure of the new data frame.
b. Execute a function so that the column names of the previous data frame are no longer
available in the R search path.
c. Use a text replacement function in an assignment statement to change the names of
two of the columns in the new data frame. The function names() will make the column
names available to you in the form of a vector that you can both read from and write to
the column names as needed. The name of your data frame is the argument inside the
parenthesis. For the first replacement, replace .Abbreviation with nothing so the
column name is State. Replace GU.Name with County. Construct the second
replacement command so that it both makes the assignment and displays the contents
of the vector in a single step.


5. Create a new data frame by combining the Texas counties data frame with the drought data that
was in the workspace you downloaded from eCampus. Include data from all rows of both data
frames in the results. Construct the command that creates the data frame so that it also
displays the contents of the data frame at the same time. Display a summary of the new data
frame.


6. The drought data contains drought information about selected Texas counties. The CountyArea
column gives the total number of square miles covered by the county. The None column
designates the percentage of the county that was not under any drought condition at the time
the data were collected. The columns D0 through D4 show the percentage of the county under
that level of drought with D4 being the most severe level of drought. The levels are inclusive
such that any portion of the county that is at a D4 level of drought is also at levels D0 through
D4. That is why some counties have multiple levels that are at 100% drought. Create a new
column in the data frame created in the previous step. This column will be the number of
square miles in the county that are under no drought condition. (Multiply CountyArea by the
percentage in None.) Create 5 more columns showing the area under drought conditions D0
through D4 respectively.
a. Display the updated data frame and its structure.
b. Use the colSums function to display the statewide totals of each of the new Area
columns. Use the apply function to make the same calculation.

7. Display a list of County names and D1 Area from the highest to the lowest D1 Area value.

8. Display a list of County names and None for the top ten counties with the largest percentage of
None.


9. Display a list of County names whose D0 value is less than 100 percent but not missing.

10. Display all data for Counties whose names begin with the letter C.


11. Display the contents of the workspace.
